# Problem Sheet: Racket

The following exercises are related to the Racket programming language [3].

### 1. Re-write the following expressions in Racket and evaluate them using a Racket interpreter/compiler.

**(a)** (3 × (5 + (10 ÷ 5)))

**(b)** (2 + 3 + 4 + 5)

**(c)** (1 + (5 + (2 + (10 ÷ 3))))

**(d)** (1 + (5 + (2 + (10 ÷ 3.0))))

**(e)** (3 + 5) × (10 ÷ 2)

**(f)** (3 + 5) × (10 ÷ 2) + (1 + (5 + (2 + (10 ÷ 3))))

### 2. Define a procedure "discount" that takes two arguments: an item’s initial price and a percentage discount [2]. It should return the new price:

> (discount 10 5)
9.50

> (discount 29.90 50)
14.95

### 3. Define a function grcomdiv that takes two integers and returns their greatest common divisor.

> (grcomdiv 10 15)
5

> (grcomdiv 64 30)
2

### 4. Write a function called appearances that returns the number of times its first argument appears as a member of its second argument [2].

```

```

### 5. Write a procedure inter that takes two lists as arguments. It should return a list containing every element that appears in both lists, exactly once.

### 6. Write a procedure noatoms that takes a list and returns the number of atoms it contains.

### 7. Here is a Racket procedure that never finishes its job when n is not 0:

```racket
(define (forever n)
    (if (= n 0)
        1
        (+ 1 (forever n))))
```

Explain why it doesn’t give any result[2].

### 8. Write a function called range that takes an integer n and returns a list containing the atoms 1, 2, 3, . . . , n.

### 9. Write a function called reversel that takes a list and returns it reversed.

### 10. If we list all the natural numbers below 10 that are multiples of 3 or 5, we get 3, 5, 6 and 9. The sum of these multiples is 23. Write a procedure to find the sum of all the multiples of 3 or 5 below 1000 [1].

### 11. Write a procedure called flatten that takes as its argument a list, possibly including sublists, but whose ultimate building blocks are atoms. It should return a sentence containing all the atoms of the list, in the order in which they appear in the original:

> (flatten '(((a b) c (d e)) (f g) ((((h))) (i j) k)))
(a b c d e f g h i j k)

### 12. Each new term in the Fibonacci sequence is generated by adding the previous two terms. By starting with 1 and 2, the first 10 terms will be: 1, 2, 3, 5, 8, 13, 21, 34, 55, 89. By considering the terms in the Fibonacci sequence whose values do not exceed four million, find the sum of the even-valued terms [1].

### 13. Write a procedure to-binary that takes a decimal interger and converts it into a list of 0’s and 1’s representing the number in binary form. The least significant bit should be on the right of the list.

> (to-binary 9)
1001

> (to-binary 23)
10111

### 14. Write a function select that takes two elements, a list and a position in the list, and return the element of the list in that position.

> (select (list 1 2 3 4 5) 1)
2

### 15. Write a function perms that takes a list as its only argument, and returns a list containing all permutations of that list.

References

[1] Project Euler. Project euler.

[2] Brian Harvey and Matt Wright. Simply scheme: Introducing computer science.

[3] PLT Inc. Racket – a programmable programming language.

-----

__*Tara O'Kelly - G00322214@gmit.ie*__